# Client-Server-Development

# How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable?
By creating code that is modular. This means that the code should work well with itself and with others. For example, the CRUD python module is a standalone module which can serve CRUD functionality with itself (if need be) or it can be inserted into other projects such as the dashboard project. This allows programmers to reuse code, borrow code from other resources, and attach code to projects to create versatile and robust applications. Using the CRUD python module abstracted away a lot of the low-level code of calling MongoDB functions and took care of normalizing underlying data structures such as ensuring the arguments passed to the CRUD methods were indeed dictionaries, non-empty, and acceptable objects. I can easily re-use this module in the future whenever I need to make calls to future databases, making CRUD functionality easier to maintain and access.

# How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist?
The first step is to understand the goal/objective. Once that's done, planning can commence which usually involves breaking down the problem into single, solvable tasks. For example, with the CRUD module, I knew I needed to have CRUD funtionality attached to the MongoDB database. That meant I had to worry about one method at a time (i.e. create, read, update, and delete). Furthermore, I continued to focus on single, solvable tasks by implementing the dash board one widget at a time. This meant I focused on creating a dynamic data table first, then a geolocation chart, followed by a histogram, etc. This strategy will serve any future problem and prove to be a valuable skill in problem-solving.

# What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter?
Computer scientist solves problems that meet the demands of customers, shareholders, users, etc. For example, Grazioso Salvare wanted to aggregate data from multiple animal shelters in the Austin area in order to identify and select possible candidates for rescue training. We (as computer scientists) took advantage of the functions that MongoDB had and used those in conjunction with open-source libraries, such as dash, in order to create a funtional and intuitive dashboard that would allow Grazioso Salvare employees to sort, filter, and discover candidates without having to manually search through lengthy datasets. Solving problems as a computer scientist is extremely important as virtually everyone relies on technology now and with everything being interconnected now, computer scientists have to ensure accessible and accurate solutions for their respective counterparts.
